Everybody at Sasser, I am super excited
to have an amazing founder and CEO Ariel
Cohen here from Navon, which some of you
may remember as Trip Actions. I haven't
had a chance to do a deep dive with
Ariel, but it's great that he's
participated in different parts of
Saster over the years. And it's super
interesting to see one of maybe in some
ways slightly under the radar most
successful preIPO true trueorns not
fakeorns trueorns doing nine figures of
revenue and and really talk about how
you disrupt an old space expense
management travel management
um and how you remake some of these
things and I really wanted to dig it in.
So first Ariel thank you so much for for
coming on and joining to talk about
what's new. Thank you so much Jason and
I have to say something about Saster
because you know uh you know now I'm
running a pretty big company but when we
just started the back then trip actions
in 015 uh Elan my co-founder and I
actually uh came to SAS in San Francisco
back then yeah in on the hill there I
think no hill and there is something you
know as a founder early stages right
that you don't know anything right and
you are kind of trying to build a
startup up and to go and see other
founders in other stages. I think it
gives you hope uh and also some
direction. So I'm happy to be here not
just because you know we're going to do
this thing and I'm going to talk a lot
about Noan and why we are great right
but also because it meant a lot to me on
our early days right on kind of seeing
other entrepreneurs other founders and
their struggles.
Yeah it's great thing it's a great
story. is that the the most the thing
that's obvious today that it was so
surprising back then is that people
would share
right
you know that folks would come if you
you were there knob hill so you were
there in 2016 and we have like Jeff
Lawson and Aaron Levy who and and the
fact that they would come up and share
their mistakes and errors it seems
obvious today but that was the
disruptive part that you could really
that you could get people to share their
mistakes and you learn so much from
every from successful mistakes I think
you you learn that it's okay right you
learn whatever you're going through it's
okay and I think it's really important.
So, wow, that's great. I did not know
you were at the one at Knobill. They're
all They're all very visceral. So, it's
good. So, so let's go back in time just
a little bit. I mostly want to talk
about today, but um I want to talk about
something niche that I but I know you've
talked about, which is branding changed,
but why? And I don't for me and and
Grant I'm in a weird corner of tech, but
I feel like Trip Actions had a super
strong brand. So, what I was taught when
I was briefly a VP in Adobe, they sent
me to this marketing camp. I thought I
knew marketing, but I only learned two
things. And one was be very careful
about a rebrand because if you have
brand equity, don't even even tarnished
brand equity, right? Even brand equity
with a little bit of don't give it away.
And yet brands can also limit your
surface area, right? Because obviously
you want it to be more than trip
actions, but what are the real learnings
around that when you have a strong
brand, right?
Yeah. I I think it was a big big big
project and program for us and exactly
because of what you've said. People knew
pre-productions. Uh but the question and
and you think you need to think about it
more from a founders's perspective and I
actually think that stuff like this can
mainly be successful if a founder is
leading them. So I'm I was actually the
one that was leading it because the why
not is so obvious and everybody will
explain to you why not, right? It's
obvious. The why yes is about who do you
want to be? Uh and and and that's
something that a founder knows. And when
we started back then trip actions um our
our vision was limited, right? I didn't
think about it in the way that I'm
thinking about it today. Today I'm
really thinking about it in in the way
that probably Amazon are thinking about
stuff. Travel is big. There are endless
amount of needs. uh the needs are trip
related, support related, expense
management related, payments related,
activities. It's endless. It's just
endless. And when you're thinking about
it in these terms, I'm really thinking
about the next 20 years. How can we get
to every frequent traveler that is out
there and providing to them everything
and when you think like that, the trip
actions brand actually not just name the
brand was extremely limiting. So it
needed an hard reset and the hard reset
was about what we want to do but also
who do we want to be and something that
we knew before COVID but COVID really
really made it clear uh to me it is
about people it's it is about people
meeting it is about people spending time
together it is about cultures by the way
it is about bridges it's it's about
understanding you and for me it's not
just the change of name but it's like
the emphasis you'll go to our app Today
you only see people there. You go to our
ads today and you see a slogan and you
see some unique person. So um that was
something that and that I really believe
that we need to do a strong reset and
that's why we did it. And I actually
think that people now uh know what Novan
is. So you know uh
well that's interesting. You don't think
you don't think there was much customer
existing customer confusion at the end
of the day. It was pretty limited. there
was at the beginning you know so of
course customers would ask why did you
change it and so on but I think that
once they saw the app right it comes
down to experience right yes and
for me what I realized it was actually
on a trip to Japan and and I'm usually
I'm always doing this uh these trips
that I'm by myself and thinking about
stuff and I realized something I
realized that a lot of B2B software was
designed to serve the buyer and the
administration
And
yeah, I want to talk about that next and
travel and payments. It's so much about
that, but it doesn't really work if the
user, the the traveler, the road
warrior, the EA that that are booking
for others are not super happy because
what they do, they find ways to book
outside, right? So then you lose all of
the administration. So creating software
that really connects the two was an aha
moment for me. And again it brings back
to um yeah we changed the name we
changed the brand customers would ask
question by the minute that they saw the
app by the minute that they saw that the
app is extremely consumer it was a huge
change in the way that the app looked
like also connected expense payment
travel in one app they got it and and I
actually I think they're really happy
about it.
I see. So key was tying it to to to the
much greater functionality in the app.
It happened at the same time rather than
a pure product marketing uh exercise.
Right.
Yeah. because we became kind of a
Frankenstein right like we had transient
travel at the beginning so you could
book your trip then we said are really
important so it was a different tab then
we said you know meeting and events
right so meeting and events is something
else then payments this is a credit card
that's something completely different
then uh expense management it was a
different app so it represent you know I
think the what you saw from us is our
our road map right basically if you take
all of our road map throughout the years
and and you look at us that's what you
saw and I was saying that's not what our
customers needs to see they need to see
you know the one thing in a van and I
think it's how to describe it when they
saw it they I think they completely
understood it
so at a higher level so that makes sense
expense management is a category here's
something I don't understand obviously
one of the oldest categories of software
which we can talk about but what
happened I don't understand what the
catalyst is over the last four to five
years that reinvented this category
right I don't why was this some things
were reinvented by the web very early
right back in the day some were kind of
in the middle like a zoom or slack but
why did this category reinovate what
what changed in technology or
collaboration I'm missing what this
catalyst is
I actually think it's really what I've
told you earlier I think that there is
this need in the organization today for
what I'm calling pe you know software
that is designed for people business
software right so you solve a business
issue, but it was designed for people.
And I think that the gap, right,
between, you know, how a software like
Salesforce behave, right, to what you do
with Netflix or with Door Dash or with
Instacart, the gap keep keeps widening.
And if this is a software that a lot of
people in the organization needs to use,
expense management, everybody needs to
use it, travel, everybody needs to use
it. um if a lot of people needs to use
it they will eventually come and say I'm
not I'm not going to use it right and if
you look at you know you've mentioned
Adobe right if you looked at Figma right
Figma is not just some design kind of
app it's something that people that
human beings that I can use it you can
use it everybody can use it and it's
different compared to Photoshop right so
I think that that this thing you'll see
it again and again And again, maybe
Slack started with that and maybe Zoom
kind of continued with that. But I think
you see a shift to companies like us and
others that are creating software for
enterprise for B2B use case for seeing a
report or policy or safety, but that the
users really like to to use
for sure. And let's transition to that.
But
on the way, but is Non and I just don't
know this, right? I don't know the
answer. Is this an are you are you an
app really that the end users will drive
demand because the thing about a slack
right or a zoom that the yes they became
enterprise but end users brought the
demand into the enterprise and I think
there are I think there are corners of
that in your but I just don't know is
that really happening Ivon that folks at
big companies bang their fist on the
table and say I'm through using concur
does that really happen in the real
world
it is happening in a different way so
first of all you know we do have a PLG G
motion but I don't think it's a question
about TLG I think it's a different
question um when we go to a customer you
know if you'll take the aggregation of
every spend all of the travel business
travel spend in the world it's more than
$1 trillion annually but if you'll go on
all of the travel agencies that are out
there which we are one of them and
you'll check how much money is being
spent through them and it will be an
aggregation of $200 billion. So where
are the rest of the 800 billion? And
what we've discovered over the years
that employees
get to choose. The CFO will tell them,
hey, you have to to use Concare to book
your trip or you have to use American
Express to book your trip. What the ones
that are really traveling, your sea
level, the uh your sales team, they will
find ways to book outside. In more than
50% of the cases when we take a customer
an enterprise customer highly enforced
environment we'll see that 50% of the
employees when you compare expense to
the travel 50% booked outside. So I
would actually that's our discovery
$800 billion market is actually not
really being managed. That's our
discovery. So we can go and try to
capture one B2B buyer after the other or
we can come and say when we capture that
B2B buyer right we sign an agreement
with a customer when we do that let's
get all of the employees using us so
that's one thing the other thing to your
point about pounding on the t on the
table we just had a company all hands
and um in the company all hands we had a
customer that apparently that customer
she's the third time in different
companies our customer and she described
that when she came to her current
company 3 months ago, they were about to
go on more of a traditional solution,
right, for a for for a travel and
expense and and she was familiar with us
and she was like, "What are you doing?
Let's do that, right?" So that's one
example, but we see it also with chair.
It is very rare that the company will
churn uh from using Navan because the
employees actually have a saying. So do
you have a really like PLG motion of
like it's not viral by nature. It's not
like, you know, I'm sending you a
message and you need to reply here, but
it has the same aspects. The employees
have a big big saying in it.
When you have um an app where the churn
is so low, even in today's world, 2020,
where we're so about efficiency now
today, are you still pushing hard for
aggressive tax spend when the churn is
low? Do you still want to push the pedal
to the metal as much as your investors
and Wall Street will let you? How do you
think about that in today's world?
So, it's such an interesting question.
So, you know, we went through COVID and
in COVID, we lost all of our revenue
already at around $100 million run rate
and we lost it overnight.
Yeah.
And our decision was to actually use the
time to spend money to expand market
share. So, think about kak and lt to LTV
or payback. Payback goes to infinity
because you know you you're not making
money and you you are basically paying
commission, right? So you need to have a
lot of belief belief by yourself and
also your investors that that makes any
any sense and we gained so much share
during COVID without making money at the
time but sh so much share. So now
recession right so do I spend less on go
to market or spend more on go to market.
Yeah.
So I have a product that knows in a
proven way to save you money. We are
basically paying your employees to
choose cheaper things on our platform,
right? Instead of choosing this hotel,
you're going to choose that hotel and we
are taking from our money and paying
with rewards to your employees to do
that. Right? So it's proven to save
money. Uh we are also in most segments
we are free. You don't pay us anything
anything. Okay? So I don't need anything
from you. It's also really really easy
to install. It takes a kind of half a
day to do the entire thing with
integrations with everything connecting
to octa and to your h system and all of
these things. So I would argue that any
type of crisis
yes
such as recession if you listen to your
customers customers in recession wants
to save money but they don't want to
piss off their employees and we are the
perfect solution for them because of
what I've just described. So it gives
you the answer do I want to push more on
go to market or no? The answer is yes.
The answer is yes. And it's my role as a
founder to convince you ask about
investors to convince the investors in
any point of time that this vision makes
sense and yeah we need to have money for
that and spend money for that.
So let me um a bunch of things I I I'd
love to talk about but that story how in
the enterprise the executives will go
rogue right so I was one of them. Let me
give you I usually don't want to talk
about competition but for me I want to
talk a little bit about Concur which is
one of your old competitors for fun. So,
when I was briefly a VP at Adobe, um I
went to do a customer visit to Dell and
I went on to I think to Concur and I
think the W in wherever it was was
$1,100 a night. Uh I couldn't do it as
an ex-founder, right? I couldn't spend
11 and I go on the internet and it's
$199
and I put it on my own credit card. Um
and I was told as a VP I would I could
be fired and I had to go to Shant's
office, the CEOs to defend it, right?
Um, and I said, 'Well, just fire me. I
just saved you a couple thousand. I
literally said, "Fire me." And they
didn't eventually make me go to Shot's
office. Um, but the story, because it
was to resonate what what it took me a
heartbeat to realize is the enterprise
didn't care, right? Because I don't know
how big they were at the time, 10,000
employees. You've got to manage 10,000
employees, right? So, all the friction I
went through figuring out how to use
this 27, how when was Concur founded? in
the 18th century or something like that
when whatever it was
it probably was a DOS product right but
but it does solve a problem for the CFO
and the CIO which is you can fix things
and lock them down and so in a big
enterprise why do how do you win that
right because why does the CIO care or
the CFO they care a little bit but
they actually cares a lot and it's funny
you've mentioned Adobe several times
they're actually a customer of ours
right
thank goodness thank goodness you made
the switch Thank you.
Exactly. So I I would argue that they
care a lot about this example that
you've talked about the W cost like this
and the W can can be cheaper. There is a
reason for that and it's that the
traditional travel management company.
You know concare is an extremely um bad
software and I'm not saying it because
they're a competitor. I'm like as a
product guy when I look at software that
is bad it pisses me off. So concare is
an extremely bad software that is
connected to a travel agency to American
Express, Carson Wagon, ABCD. The travel
agencies are have a business model that
is completely different than ours that
makes them connect to one content
source. Okay. So instead of connecting
to everything that is out there, you
know, Expedia booking directly to the
hotel, everything that is out there,
instead of connecting to that, they're
connecting to one thing, right? because
of the business model. It's actually not
because of technology. So that's why you
see as an as an employee, right? And
you're saying that doesn't make any
sense. So before Navan uh you know the
company you know Adobe to your point
needed to choose uh I need to manage
travel, I need to put policy, compliance
is important, I need to know where my
employees are. All of these things are
important.
Super important to big company, right?
Exactly. And if I'm ending up losing a
lot of money in the process because I'm
forcing my employee to my employees to
book really expensive hotel for no
reason. It's the same room, right?
That's part of doing business. That was
before us. I'll give you another
example. When you want to change a
flight or when you cannot book through
Concare, by the way, it's not just that
Concare is a bad software. It's such a
bad software that people ending up
calling or emailing an agent to book
their trip and it's in more than 60% of
the time, right? So you are actually
wasting a lot of your employees time. So
you do all of these things and and there
was no other alternative. When we came
we said first of all content connecting
to everything is so important because
people can Google it right. So
Google it right. Yeah of course. Yeah.
So so that's the trust right? I need to
gain your trust as a user. Uh the second
thing I need to support you all the
time. You want to cancel this hotel. You
want to change this trip. You need to do
all of these things. And I need to have
such a simple business model that when
you contact me, I'm not charging you
again. A traditional travel agency will
charge you every time that you contact
them. So it's not just that it's more
expensive. They're going to also nickel
and dime you and charging you. So we
simplified it. We said two things. If
you have fairly complex installation,
we're going to charge you on every trip
onetime booking fee. So that's more
enterprise and so on. But actually
recently we went and if you have a
fairly simple implementation it's free.
You're not paying us anything and you
can contact our agents as many times as
you want to. Of course we are enjoying
from a technology right we have a lot of
actually we have a bot right that is
that kind of supports you in most of the
cases that creates a gross margins or
economics that are similar to tech which
is usually not something that you see in
in a services industry. So that allows
us to do these things but it really
starts from this focus on the end user
and to understand that that person is
the most important thing in this
equation.
Yeah, it's interesting when the underly
when you have a competitor that seems
direct but the underlying business model
is so different. Does it how does it um
how does it affect pricing and how do
you think about pricing when you come at
from these different vectors? Like how
do you think about that especially with
bigger customers?
I think that you know um you have
different segments that are creating
different I would say outcomes from
economy perspective. So the obvious ones
in our industry is that
we we'll make less money from
enterprises. Uh we'll make more money
from you know SMBs and what we are
calling commercials and so on. Uh so
this is kind of the thing but you get
way more volume there and more brand
recognition and you get less on the
other side. So eventually we look at the
business and one thing that we were
doing from day one is to constantly
constantly look at the unit economics.
Uh gross margins is not it's something
that you'll go to every employee in a
van and they will know what gross
margins are right and it's important
because it kind of affects the way that
you are thinking about the business how
you go to different segments and and so
on. So I think that that's kind of this
balancing act. A lot of complexity and
less money enterprise but a lot of
volume much less complexity and better
economics on the other side and you need
to price it accordingly. Enterprise are
paying more. U SMBs commercials are not
paying us anything right so you really
need to find the balance as you think
about your unit economics and your
business model. on that question of
gross margins. Um now in today's era
there's much more focus on gross margins
as part of the efficiency right at
public companies on Wall Street. What
have you learned on the payments credit
card embedded fintech side? I don't know
the margins are almost always lower
unless you literally build your own
payment network yourself right
yeah I can tell by the way I I think
that gross margins was a focus maybe of
three four years ago uh in late stage
the the focus right now is on eBay
margins right which is a completely
different ballgame uh and obviously let
you get into what we've talked about
earlier like so now marketing and go to
market is part of this your investment
in engineering you know your entire DNA
so that's definitely a focus and it's
interesting from a fintech perspect
perspective because also what is your
interest rate that you are paying uh to
give these loans right so if you think
about most of fintech companies
including us right including us have if
you have a credit card and you are going
to your customers and telling them hey
get credit for me and you do the
underwriting and you take some risk
there and all of these things so you're
basically a bank right you do that uh
first of all you do take an underwriting
risk but you're also paying interest
rate if interest rate goes to 6% %
probably now 5.5 and we are paying more
than this right your cost of capital
went up this thing affects your entire
economics right and so I think that
there is you know it's there is a big
question in my mind on the validity of
the business models of of a lot of
fintex companies and we realized it I
think two and a half years ago and
that's why we've developed Nan connect
and nan connect was this idea let's
connect directly to the banks let's
actually support you with our expense
management and that magic you swipe your
card and we captured everything let's
support you on your uh city bank card on
your JP Morgan card on the card that you
you know on your bank of America card
the card that you already have I'm not
asking you to change your card but also
I'm not underwriting and also I'm not
giving you loans which is almost
challenging the fintech model, right?
Because what I'm not getting is
interchange, right? So, I'm removing
part of the income, but I'm also
removing part of the risk and part of
the need to keep raising money. Uh, so
I'm basically coming and saying, "Hey,
Navan, while we are in the fintech space
for sure, we are a technology company.
We are not a bank. We are not trying to
be a bank. We are not trying to change
something that the bank figured out for
the last 150 years." Yes. which is how
to underwrite and how to raise money to
give loans.
But it is interesting that you that's a
very thoughtful decision you guys went
through. But you did give up topline
revenue to make that decision. You
certainly could have encouraged or
forced people to use your own card and
taken that piece of the interchange and
managed it, right? Um you decided to
give up that topline boost, right? Uh to
avoid some of the downsides to being in
that banking business.
And that's why revenue is only one
metric, right? So uh yeah you can look
at topline or revenue but the question
is how much money you make out of it
which is in gross margins and eventually
ebida margins
and if you only look here everything
looks great if you start to go through
contribution margin uh you are giving up
something but you'd be surprised not a
lot now you need to have you need to
have the ability you need to have a
sales team that knows to sales license
right that can actually charge for the
software and there was kind of this free
meal I think of everything is free
because somebody else is paying for it
which you can enjoy it as long as the
economics works across the board not
just revenue and if it stops if suddenly
it is questionable
uh then you need to do something with it
but if you don't have a sales team that
knows how to sell license it's actually
very very hard to to make this business
change so again I think we are selling
software we are selling software that
makes booking your trip really really
easy yeah
it takes five minutes to book an entire
business trip for us. It's super easy to
support yourself when you want to make a
change. You want to do expense
management, you swipe your card and
that's it. You know, you've you've
talked about hotels. People that are
using Navan and go to the hotel, they
know they don't need to check out. We
don't ask them to check out. We are
collecting the receipt automatically
with a certain bot that we had. We are
itemizing it. You know this thing that
you sit and you're saying there are
three level of taxes and for this day
the tax was that and for that you start
to and I took this thing from the mini
bar and I went and have breakfast and
now you're finding yourself itemizing a
receipt people that are using uh Nana
are not doing it right. So I think this
is kind of where across the board if you
have really good software that saves
people time, saves money, adhere to
handles some enterprise needs and the
users are happy, you can charge for it
and that's kind of why we could have
changed the business model with Nan
Connect.
Interesting. Okay, two more things I
want to hit before we run out of time.
Um, especially since I have the founder
CEO here. You just had a big press
release on a partnership with City on a
travel and expense portal. Sounds great.
I'm sure it is great because you did a
press for city's city's one of the
largest banks in the world.
But what what I'd love to learn from you
is a lot of times these things there are
big deals. Um but they're so hard to
implement. It's so hard to get the
single sign on to work. The data to flow
like okay you integrate with someone
else's points or system. It never works
in my experience. It just never you have
to log in through some clunky thing
and what's the goal of this partnership
overall? Let's talk about it. How as a
as a founder, how how can you make these
kind of things great between a big
company and and a and a and a and a pre
sort of pre-IPO company? How do you make
the software great?
You know, before and Elon and I had a
startup that we we sold very small,
right? We sold it really really early
but it was integration platform in the
cloud and we went and connected like
really tough enterprise systems like
SharePoint, MS Exchange to stuff like
Dropbox and back then you know I'm all
to Yammer and Chatter and these kind of
you know things right and we've managed
to do it with three four clicks like you
know the end user user will integrate so
I think that kind of mentality that if
you are not figuring out the integration
to the IT environment to the enterprise
environment uh it will not work so
that's that's to your point so Navan is
built Navan connect was built and Avan
generally but connect was built without
dependency on any partnership it just
work you you bring your credit card you
do something in our app and it works so
that mentality when we went to city bank
and showed it to them and it was
competitive we competed with other
players in this market other unicorns
and other right but we showed them that
we know to operate it like this. So
technology wise I'm actually not worried
a lot at all about it you know but I
understand your question I think that
what makes partnership successful or not
is something else it's the go-to market
yeah
are the sales team capable to cooperate
completely different companies you know
can can they cooperate can they
articulate the the value proposition to
the joint customers here and I think and
they can they work together and then can
we implement uh this is really hard they
have actually a lot of experience with
this for you know other companies that
they used to work for it I think it's
really really really hard and you need
to put all of the mechanisms up front
including compensation right all of the
mechanisms up front to make it work and
you need to make sure that there is a
real value proposition and for the card
holders of city bank to have a smarter
card a card that you can expense uh that
you can book your trip just because you
have the card that's really really
valuable and it's interesting we
announced a partnership ship today. We
signed it only a few weeks ago, but
yesterday we actually signed our first
deal on an enterprise account using
joint offering. So it tells me while
partnerships are really hard, it tells
me that there is a real need in the
marketplace. So I'm very optimistic on
that.
And it runs and this integration it runs
in my city account. Is it sort of pseudo
white labelled or how does what's the
what's the user experience so that it's
Yeah. First of all, both sides are
selling it and both sides are
cooperating on selling it. So our team
can sell it and then they bring they
bring City Bank in and the other way
around and yeah if you are a City Bank
corporate customer uh you will be able
to actually go to City Bank and say hey
I want this thing and it will start to
work and if you are obviously a big
customer of City Bank the sales team of
City Bank will come there and offering
you this uh this offering and it's
co-branded but it's you know it's
actually working exactly as the way that
Navan is working today. You book your
trip, you use the city bank card up
there, you swipe the city bank card and
it just work. I was actually in London
last week and instead of using our card,
I was using the city bank card all the
time and it works exactly the same. It's
in our app. The expense management
manage was captured correctly, the trip,
everything. And on the um on the
alignment of the go to market teams and
I I think usually this is a good thing
and something you have to do are in the
end at least in the short term are you
paying more in terms of sales
compensation others because there are in
effect two teams usually that's what
folks like if you try to if you try and
slice one commission too fine nobody
nobody's incented are they
yeah I think first of all the answer is
yes you are paying more you need to
incentivize you know to incentivize
there are different mechanisms as you
probably know like spiffs and other
things but there is another think there
is a really good pipeline edition and
when we were about to sign I did
something very simple I went to my CRO
and I didn't ask him hey do you like
this partnership because you know CRO's
likes everything you can throw at them
so because they can create more right
but I asked him would you commit commit
to more revenue
this year next year the the the year
after because of the partnership and
when his answer grant's answer was yes I
was say okay we should do this
partnership right So I think go to
market by the way generally go to market
is really important but go to market
when it comes to partnership is actually
probably the most important thing. Yeah,
let's one last point I want to ask about
the future of noon on a sec, but that's
a great insight. Like if if you have a
good VP of sales or CRO, you can almost
measure a partnership like this based on
whether they'll make a commit,
right?
And there's a lot lot of reasons to not
make a commit. It's risky, right, to the
CEO to not make a commit. Um, but if you
do make the commit, you'll get the
resources as the CRO, right? So you're
you're it's it's not that they're
perfect, but it's a very interesting
litmus test of whether to to deploy more
resources, get and I I see so many not
want to make the commit for logical
reasons, right?
I think I think there are and and that's
more of an advice to founders and I went
through through it, right? So I was not
necessarily really smart about it,
right? I've learned it the hard way.
There are a lot of type of CRO out there
and there there are the CRO that are
running a process, right? Take Matteic
as as an example. like they're running a
process and they can run it in this
company, that company, the other
company. There are CRO and I think that
we have one Grant McGrill. I think there
are CRO that knows to build the process
for this company, for this business, for
these customers. And Grant is like that.
So when you go to a guy like Grant and
basically telling him, hey, we want to
sign a partnership with City Bank or it
could be something else, right? and and
you can have a real discussion with that
guy that is not just based on like here
is how sales was done 500 years ago, you
know, and and you know, and here is the
process. So again, I've learned it the
hard way, but if you are a kind of a
product kind of company, a product
driven company, and we are because
that's kind of who I am, right? So if
you are a product driven company, you
need to be very very very aligned with
your go-to market and with the people
that are are leading it. Yeah, good
insight. Okay, one more on this and then
we'll wrap up with one final deep dive.
But Non and 20, this is this series is
what's new at. So what's coming next
year? What are the what's the coolest
one or two things down the pike that you
and the team are working on? What are
the great innovations? What are the one
or two things we're going to see in the
next 12 months?
Yeah, I will not live in Silicon Valley
if I will not say AI. So I have to say
AI, right? But I I will say AI. You
know, I've mentioned this. Eva is our
chatbot and she's becoming really really
smart by the minute on really.
Okay, before you get there though,
because you've been doing this for a
while, one to 10, how good is she today?
The chatbot 1 to 10. How good?
I know the I actually know exactly the
answer. I would say 7.2. And 7.2 is
because we measure CISAT on so customer
satisfaction on with her and that's what
she gets. So that's the answer.
72.
Exactly. And the goal is to bring it
bring it above above 90. And this is
related to the type of you know of
models that we are using. We are
actually using both open AI and entropic
and how do you really uh combine the two
with also with our capabilities. But I
didn't want to to to actually so I was
mentioning aa
connected to our UI. We are basically
coming to Ava and tell a hey I want to
book this hotel in London right
and we have this capability to know who
you are because you are constantly
booking through us. So we are kind of
profiling you and then creating a match.
Hey Jason wants to say to stay at the W
in in in London. So now A is telling you
hey we think that the W and maybe two
other hotels are relevant for you and
she opens the UI. So the the thing is
here she is here and we play between the
two.
I see. I don't think I've seen too much
of that.
Extremely excited about it. I think that
it's not likely that people will jump
directly at scale. Uh not early adopters
but all of the people. Right. at scale
to just speaking with some chat bots. Uh
I think that combining the current
buying experience with a what a chatbot
can do with you know obviously with the
with generative AI is the future. You
can see an alpha that we've released
around it around hotels functionality
with our videos around it. I think that
that's what you're going to see from us
and probably others in the years to
come. and I'm and Elon, my co-founder,
we are extremely excited about that
about the possibilities of like having
basically a travel a personalized travel
agent for you, a travel agent that
really knows you.
Yeah.
And and completely changing your buying
experience.
Yeah. It's interesting. If the AI
doesn't really not just say something,
but then configure the the the app for
you, like the way you want to do it,
right?
Um you're you're not you're not
necessarily making my life better,
right? Um, but if you go that next step,
you are gonna make because I hate bots
most of the time because I go into it
and I'm worried it's going to make my
life worse, right? But if it's going to
configure the app for me, not just
answer a question, then boy, I don't
want to do that. I don't want to do that
part like that. That's that's that's
that's uh that's amazing, right?
That that's a problem with prompt,
right? So, you know, when if I need to
go to CHP every time and say I'm Ariel,
this is me. This is what I want to do.
Blah blah blah blah blah. takes me five
minutes to actually explain who I am and
then you do the back and forth. Uh, it's
cool because we didn't see it a year and
a half ago, right? So, it's super cool,
but is it efficient? And it's efficient
to
if I already know who you are, if I
already know what are your travel
habits, if I know everything about by
the way your peers, right? So, if I know
all of these things and I can match it
uh with with understanding you, right?
And I can match it with everything that
is out there, then it's becoming really
really effective. And that's kind of
what we've been working on for quite
some time. We have an initial release
there. Um it's pro it's it's by the way
our team in Tel Aiv doing it. So
obviously it's a little bit slow down
right now but that's really uh something
that I think that we'll invest more and
more at.
Okay. Let's use that to transition to
the last point I wanted to ask. You said
you were in Tel Aviv with with Israel
and
we're we're most of the folks that are
going to watch or listen to this are
cloud executives, right? And one thing
that some folks don't get is that pound
for pound, human for human, Israel
produces more software leaders than any
other nation, right? You think it's the
Bay Area may be number one, but not the
United States. Pound for more folks have
contributed to our community from Israel
on a Pratta basis than anywhere else.
Um,
but people that want to help that are in
SASCloud, what do they do? Right? I just
don't think I mean for some folks that
have a following I can do some stuff on
social media but it's not enough right
and what do we do to help with this
horrific situation what can we do as SAS
folks
yeah so I can tell you what we are doing
which can help to you to understand what
you can do uh when there are crisises
humanitarian crisises and obviously I'm
also Israelist I'm not putting it just
as an a humanitarian crisis it's very
personal for me and we have a big team
in Israel right we have 150 people in
Tel Aviv most of them in the engineering
team. But on every case like this, I'm
looking at our platform and I'm asking
how can our platform help these people.
So actually the first time that we did
it was actually with Ukraine. We used
our platform to help refugees to
actually h get into hotels uh in Europe
and we used our team for that. We
collected donations. people, our
customers could go to our platform and
actually give the rewards that we are
giving them, convert them to donations
in Ukraine. We did something slightly
different with with Afghanistan. I will
not get into this right now. We are
doing something with refugees in in
London. Again, stuff stuff like that
completely not related to Israel. So
when Israel started, I was asking what
can our platform do? And what we've
discovered that people left their house,
you know, all of the people in the
kibbutim left their house overnight with
nothing. Now the credit their credit
cards didn't work because these credit
cards were stolen by the terrorists
there and they were using them. So all
of the credit cards were blocked. So you
are somewhere now in tele not in the
center of Israel. You have no dignity,
right? You have nothing. You know the
people will give you food and stuff but
you want to buy stuff. So we uh sent our
team there to issue card cards on their
on their phone, right? Navan cards, gave
them credit cards with money inside,
right? So basically, and the way that we
did it, so how do you have money inside?
We've done stuff. So for example, we've
canceled our holidays parties because
across the world because we said that in
any case, it doesn't feel right to uh
celebrate right now and we've diverted
that money for to in order to load these
cards. But then also we went to our
friends, we went to our board, our board
of director directors donated more than
$1 million to this effort just from our
boards, right? So and this is not from
their funds. I'm talking about personal
donations, right, of our board members.
So all of these things together to date,
we've put $2.2 million, you know, into
these cards. We also have a website that
you can actually donate there. uh you
know uh we can follow up with the with
the name later because I don't remember
it but we have a a website that you can
go to this website and actually donate
and it will go strictly to these cards.
So we have a team there and they meet
these people that really really went
through horrible things and they hear
their stories but it's the point of
bringing back their kind of their their
dignity, right? And that that's kind of
what we've been doing.
Cool. That's a great idea. I will uh
we'll put the the URL on the post and I
will I will make a donation as soon as I
get it from you. Um that's a it sounds
like I mean there are a lot of maybe not
a lot there are a number of humanitarian
groups broadly speaking right but it
sounds like the one you guys have set up
definitely turbocharges this this access
to folks that have been you know
immediately displaced. That's pretty
that's that's pretty fast call to
action. So that's terrific. Let me I
will support that as well. Any other for
for folks just in general? Any other
last tips before we break on other
things they can do in general um as SAS
or cloud folks? Any other ideas of
things people can do?
I think my approach in these things and
first I would say war world wars walls
are ugly and it's by the way ugly in
both sides and I mean it and I think
that people needs to use their humanity
and hearts and think what's right for
them and how they can help. And this is
my advice to to anybody that is out
there. There are people that are
suffering. There are kids. Uh a lot of
people that you don't want to to see
suffering. Uh you know, growing up in
the Middle East, you know, war is kind
of part of the thing, but uh but they're
always ugly. It's not some TV show. You
know, I know that everybody are kind of,
you know, on Twitter and on X, right?
And on Instagram and all of these
things. It's not a TV show. It's ugly.
and uh and and use your your heart or
humanity and do whatever you feel that
you need to do.
Good. Okay. Well, listen, this was a a
fabulous uh deep dive. I think we hit
just about anything before we break. Any
last thing you want to hit that we
somehow missed? I think we touched a lot
of good stuff, but anything we missed?
That was great. I I always like to, you
know, to do these things because I think
I know how hard it is to be a founder
and I actually think that right now it's
probably harder. Uh it's it's really
hard, I think, these days to raise
money. uh there are more questions
around it. Probably if you're not
running an AI startup like it's really
really hard. Uh what I would tell to
every founder that is out there if you
believe in the vision and mission you
personally as a founder it will be okay.
You'll find a solution. I'm talking from
a lot of experience here. Uh you it will
be okay just you know make sure that you
believe in the vision and the mission
and then things will turn out to be
okay.
I would say my only you've gone far
further than that. I would completely
agree as long as you have a great
co-founder or team, right? Uh you do a
great team that never quits will work
push through harder times than this. But
a stubborn founder that doesn't have a
great team but believes in the market
that is super important like Elon by the
Elan and I that's our second startup
together. Elan by the way is in Tel
Aviv, but that's our second startup
together. and and also you know a lot of
our founding team right the teams that
started Navan are still here right eight
and a half years into this and the
company is completely different this is
not an early stage you know company but
but they're still here because they
believe in the mission cool Ariel this
was so great thanks for making all the
time um and we'll we'll catch up we'll
catch up again soon so many great
amazing thank you so Yes.